README.md, before:

#EUMS 
[![Build Status](https://snap-ci.com/unicefuganda/eums/branch/master/build_image)](https://snap-ci.com/unicefuganda/eums/branch/master)[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/unicefuganda/eums.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/unicefuganda/eums)
====

End User Monitoring System

Installation
------------
* Install and Setup PostgreSQL
	* For Mac Users, can run the following:
		*  `brew install postgres` - install with brew
		*  `postgres -D /usr/local/var/postgres` - start postgres server
	*  `createuser -s -r postgres` - create the `postgres` user
	*  `createdb -O postgres eums` - create the `eums` database

* Install [Node](http://nodejs.org/).

* Install chromedriver for running feature tests.
	* `brew install chromedriver` 

* A note on Python Virtual Environments
	* We recommend using and managing your virtual environments with [virtualenvwrapper](http://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/). 
	* If you are using a shared Virtual Environments directory that is not the default location used by virtualenvwrapper (~/.virtualenvs/), you will need to note this location for later use when running functional tests.

* Set up the project and install necessary packages

        # Clone the repository
        
        $ git clone https://github.com/unicefuganda/eums.git
        $ cd eums

        # Create and source your virtual environment in one of two ways:
        
        1) example using virtualenvwrapper

        $ source /usr/local/bin/virutalenvwrapper.sh
        $ mkvirtualenv eums
        
        2) example using virtualenv within project directory

        $ virtualenv eums
        $ source eums/bin/activate
        
        # Install necessary packages

        $ pip install -r requirements.txt
        $ cd eums/client
        $ npm install
        $ npm install -g bower
        $ bower install
        $ npm install -g grunt-cli
        
* Populate the database. Note to install one of the fixtures (e.g. new\_data.json), you will need to comment out the `schedule_run_for(line_item)` line in the `handlers.py` file before running the `loaddata` script below.

        $ cd to/the/project/root
        $ python manage.py syncdb --noinput
        $ python manage.py migrate
        $ python manage.py loaddata sample-data.json

* Run the tests to verify setup

        $ python manage.py test
        $ cd eums/client
        $ grunt
        
        # If your virtual environment is not at ~/.virtualenvs/, run:
        
        $ grunt --venvHome=relative/path/to/virtualenv/

* Start the redis server
        
        $ brew install redis
        $ redis-server

* Start the application server

        $ cd to/the/project/root
        $ python manage.py runserver
        

#Troubleshooting

* When running feature tests with grunt make sure the local instance of djangoserver is not running, else they will likely fail since they will try run against the local instance.

* When installing packages, we have seen node packages throw a `CERT_UNTRUSTED` error at times. This is due to a [strict SSL issue](http://bower.io/docs/config/#strict-ssl). In this case, you can add a `.bowerrc` file in the `eums/client` directory with the following contents:

        {
			"directory": "bower_components",
			"registry": "http://bower.herokuapp.com",
			"strict-ssl": false
		}
	
* At times, `npm` has been unable to set the PhantomJS binary to the correct path, even when installing globally. In this case, set it explicitly.

* Also note that the karma server and PhantomJS will both run on port `8080`. Make sure this port is free when running `grunt`.


#Deployments

For deployments, see the [Deployment Guide](https://github.com/unicefuganda/eums/wiki/Deployment-Guide).

Commit message:

Instructions to load new-deployment-instance.json

README.md, after:

#EUMS 
[![Build Status](https://snap-ci.com/unicefuganda/eums/branch/master/build_image)](https://snap-ci.com/unicefuganda/eums/branch/master)[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/unicefuganda/eums.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/unicefuganda/eums)
====

End User Monitoring System

Installation
------------
* Install and Setup PostgreSQL
	* For Mac Users, can run the following:
		*  `brew install postgres` - install with brew
		*  `postgres -D /usr/local/var/postgres` - start postgres server
	*  `createuser -s -r postgres` - create the `postgres` user
	*  `createdb -O postgres eums` - create the `eums` database

* Install [Node](http://nodejs.org/).

* Install chromedriver for running feature tests.
	* `brew install chromedriver` 

* A note on Python Virtual Environments
	* We recommend using and managing your virtual environments with [virtualenvwrapper](http://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/). 
	* If you are using a shared Virtual Environments directory that is not the default location used by virtualenvwrapper (~/.virtualenvs/), you will need to note this location for later use when running functional tests.

* Set up the project and install necessary packages

        # Clone the repository
        
        $ git clone https://github.com/unicefuganda/eums.git
        $ cd eums

        # Create and source your virtual environment in one of two ways:
        
        1) example using virtualenvwrapper

        $ source /usr/local/bin/virutalenvwrapper.sh
        $ mkvirtualenv eums
        
        2) example using virtualenv within project directory

        $ virtualenv eums
        $ source eums/bin/activate
        
        # Install necessary packages

        $ pip install -r requirements.txt
        $ cd eums/client
        $ npm install
        $ npm install -g bower
        $ bower install
        $ npm install -g grunt-cli
        
* Populate the database. Note to install one of the fixtures (e.g. new\_data.json), you will need to comment out the `schedule_run_for(line_item)` line in the `handlers.py` file before running the `loaddata` script below.

        $ cd to/the/project/root
        $ python manage.py syncdb --noinput
        $ python manage.py migrate
        
* In order to load seed data there are two fixture files available 'sample-data.json' and 'new-deployment-instance.json'. The sample-data.json contains example responses, distribution plans, sales orders etc. The new-deployment-instance.json is recommended for a clean instance where plans, sales orders, purchase orders, responses are not loaded but tables such as flow, items, item units are filled in. Load the data by running the command line below with the appropriate fixture file name.   

        $ python manage.py loaddata [fixture-file-name]

* Run the tests to verify setup

        $ python manage.py test
        $ cd eums/client
        $ grunt
        
        # If your virtual environment is not at ~/.virtualenvs/, run:
        
        $ grunt --venvHome=relative/path/to/virtualenv/

* Start the redis server
        
        $ brew install redis
        $ redis-server

* Start the application server

        $ cd to/the/project/root
        $ python manage.py runserver
        

#Troubleshooting

* When running feature tests with grunt make sure the local instance of djangoserver is not running, else they will likely fail since they will try run against the local instance.

* When installing packages, we have seen node packages throw a `CERT_UNTRUSTED` error at times. This is due to a [strict SSL issue](http://bower.io/docs/config/#strict-ssl). In this case, you can add a `.bowerrc` file in the `eums/client` directory with the following contents:

        {
			"directory": "bower_components",
			"registry": "http://bower.herokuapp.com",
			"strict-ssl": false
		}
	
* At times, `npm` has been unable to set the PhantomJS binary to the correct path, even when installing globally. In this case, set it explicitly.

* Also note that the karma server and PhantomJS will both run on port `8080`. Make sure this port is free when running `grunt`.


#Deployments

For deployments, see the [Deployment Guide](https://github.com/unicefuganda/eums/wiki/Deployment-Guide).
